antilag notes


Platform Specific Notes
There are some small differences in MHD+ between platforms. This can include the tables
provided, axis orientation, implementation details, etc. Also, some platforms needed special
conditions added in order to circumvent their unique limitations (like the ~22psi boost cap on
N54).
We have done our best to comprehensively detail these differences, exceptions, etc in this
document. In each of the below sections, a PLATFORM NOTES comment will expand upon these
details. Please feel free to reach out to us if there is something you have a question about or
notice it is not covered / detailed, and we will be more than happy to assist.

Antilag
This feature is enabled by setting the Enable Antilag table to 1, while appropriately tuning the
below tables. Antilag is then activated in the car (once operating conditions are within the
configurable safety limits) by pressing and holding one of the following buttons below, while
applying throttle:
● E-Series: pull cruise control stalk in TOWARD you, or hold steering wheel VOL DOWN
● F/G-Series: hold either the cruise control RES button, or the cruise control DOWN rocker
switch (both first and second indent work)
PLATFORM NOTES:
● MG1 DME: provides the ability to Enable Antilag per map slot.

Main Tables
Tuning of these tables can greatly vary from car to car due to the exhaust setup, turbo, fuel, etc.
The values and screenshots below are meant to be a general guide / starting point. Always log
and validate per vehicle.

© 2025 MHD Tuning 7
Antilag Timing (Base)
Timing retard is the main driver in generating exhaust gas energy and heat to get your turbo
spooled up. The goal is to retard timing enough to greatly reduce or eliminate the forward
acceleration of the vehicle (for rolling use cases, stopped / launch use cases can disregard),
while also providing sufficient energy to get the turbo spooled. Similar amounts of timing retard
can likely be used for various boost target columns as the DME can regulate boost with WGDC
and throttle position as well. While antilag is active, this timing table becomes the new main
timing table.
● X-axis: Boost Target (psi, relative)
● Y-axis: RPM

PLATFORM NOTES:
● MSD8x DME: the boost target axis features dynamic scaling (when also using the 3-cell
TMAP scaling), to allow entering actual boost values past 22psi.
● MG1 DME: the X and Y axis are swapped

© 2025 MHD Tuning 8
Antilag Timing (P-Factor)
This is a simple P-factor table whose output is added to the result of the Timing (Base) table
above. Its purpose is to help provide enough timing retard to attain the boost target (for large
positive boost deviations), while also providing a safety net to add positive timing in the result of
an overboost (negative deviation).
● X-axis: Boost Deviation (psi, relative)
● Y-axis: RPM

PLATFORM NOTES:
● MSD8x DME: this table is not provided due to free CAL space restrictions
● MG1 DME: the X and Y axis are swapped

© 2025 MHD Tuning 9
Antilag Timing Ramp Rates
The instant antilag is disengaged, ignition timing starts blending back to the values of whichever
main DME timing table is currently active (spool, path 1, path 2, etc). These two single cell
tables determine that rate. While ignition timing is still negative, the Timing Ramp Rate (°crk &lt;
0) table is used. Once it reaches 0, then the Timing Ramp Rate table is used.
● Timing Ramp Rate: suggested value of 1.5 (°crk/10ms)
● Timing Ramp Rate (°crk &lt; 0): suggested value range of 5 - 10 (°crk/10ms)

Antilag Boost Target
While antilag is active, this acts as a ceiling to boost target. Therefore if the user is only slightly
pressing the throttle, it is possible to have a lower target than what is set in this table. The table
units are psi, relative.
PLATFORM NOTES:
● MSD8x DME: this table features dynamic scaling (when also using the 3-cell TMAP
scaling), to allow entering actual boost values past 22psi.
● MG1 DME: provides configuration boost targets per map

Antilag Fuel Target
While antilag is active, this table becomes the active AFR target for fuel banks 1 (and 2 if
appropriate). Leaner values can give even quicker spool, while richer will help keep the EGT
cooler. If you are using this to try and keep EGT under the safety value, be sure to log our EGT
pre-turbo parameter. While its exact value is not necessarily accurate, the trends are and this is
one of the fastest responding EGT parameters the DME has.

© 2025 MHD Tuning 10
Turbine I-Factor
While antilag is active, we selectively enable the I-Factor applied to turbine power (kW). There
are three single cell tables: the minimum and maximum bounds of the integration constant sum,
and the actual integration constant (amount added or subtracted every 10ms). The intent of
these tables is to help with overboosting during antilag, so we recommend setting the Maximum
to 0. The Minimum and Constant can be set to 0 if not desired, or tuned accordingly to help
keep antilag boost in check.
PLATFORM NOTES:
● MSD8x DME: this table is not provided (was not deemed necessary)
● MG1 DME: this table is not provided (was not deemed necessary)

Antilag Compressor Base / P-factor
These tables are provided to give better boost control during antilag on MG1 DME vehicles. To
enable these tables, set the Enable Antilag Compressor Map and P-Fac Tables table to 1, and
then fill the Antilag Compressor Map… and Antilag WGDC P-Fac tables accordingly. If you are
using our custom WGDC boost control scheme on a supported platform (detailed in the New /
Custom tables section of this document), that will override the values in these tables.
PLATFORM NOTES:
● MSD8x DME: these tables are not provided (were not deemed necessary)
● MEVD DME: these tables are not provided (were not deemed necessary)

© 2025 MHD Tuning 11
Safeties
Currently, the following tables are provided in order to ensure a relatively safe usage of antilag.
They may be expanded in the future.
● Antilag Coolant Safety (Min / Max): antilag will only activate if the engine coolant temp
is inside these values. Once active, if the max is exceeded antilag will disengage.
● Antilag EGT Safety (Max): antilag will only activate if the parameter EGT pre-turbo is
less than this value. Once active, if the max is exceeded antilag will disengage.
● Antilag Cooldown Timer: this is the time duration in seconds that must pass before
being able to use antilag again.
● Antilag Timeout: this is the time duration in seconds that antilag can remain active for
during one use. Once active, if the time expires antilag will disengage.
● Antilag Start Delay: this is the time delay in seconds which determines how long one of
the “activation condition” buttons / levers must be pressed / held before antilag
activates.
○ E-Series: pull CC stalk TOWARD you or VOL DOWN
○ F/G-Series: hold RES or CC Down

If you are looking for a starting point for these values, we use the following for our OTS flash
option config:
● Coolant Min = 70*C
● Coolant Max = 115*C
● EGT Max = 1050*C
● Cooldown Timer = 12s
● Timeout = 5s
● Start Delay = 0.3s